Wide Area Query

These a bits of old code (1992), mainly published for archival reasons, but you
may still find them useful.

The Wide Area Query system was designed and written by Arjen G. Lentz in
cooperation with John Caulfeild of EuroBaud Software (Consett, Britain).


What does Wide Area Query do, and how?

WAQ was built around a script-language which looks somewhat like C, but the
input functions are limited to single characters and integer values.
The code-interpreter software is freely available.  If someone wants to issue
his own queries, they need to buy the compiler and utilities (disassembler), or
ask/hire someone who has the compiler to design and write the script for him.

A compiled script can be distributed over a large number of systems which run
the interpreter software, where users can take part and answer the questions.
The answers from each user for a particular script are stored in a response
file, together with a time stamp and an ID derived from the user's name.
The username can not be reverse engineered from this ID, so a questionaire is
always really completely anonimous; there are no back doors for a script-author
to obtain a user's name.  (The algorithm is Message Digest 5 by Donald Rivest.)

Every script has a start and end date, as well as a return address. When the
end date/time has passed the maintenance program on each system inserts its own
address into the response file, compresses it, and then calls an external
utility to get it sent off to the return address.  In for instance FidoNet a
file-attach message would be created to make the mailer call and send the file.

At the return address, all these response files are first decompressed and then
merged into a single database.  Records with the same ID (ie. a user answered
the same questionaire on different systems) are eliminated by only keeping the
one with the most recent time stamp.The total number of responses can be very
large.

The range of questions for which one can expect a reasonably accurate outcome
is of course limited by the public the question is asked.
For instance, asking the general BBS community how it would vote in a general
election can be a lot of fun, but of course doesn't reflect the view of the
real electorate as it is not a representative sample.
Apart from this fun, there are plenty of questions which can be put before
BBS users; they are a representative sample of the BBS community.

WAQ can also be used on a single system, or internal within an organisation.
Numerous applications in education come to mind, but business too.

The WAQ programs were written in C, with special focus on portability.
The MS-DOS version was compiled with Borland C++ 2.0, but we also successfully
compiled the same source (with a couple of conditionals, of course) under
SCO-XENIX.  Chances are good that WAQ can be ported to almost any platform.


    -- Enjoy, Arjen (1992, 2023)